RMIT Classification: Trusted
RMIT Vietnam University
School of Science, Engineering and Technology
COSC2789/2089
Practical Data Science
Assignment 3: Group project
Due: 08:00 AM, January 16
th
, 2025 (week 12)
This assignment is worth 30% of your overall mark.
Introduction
This assignment covers core steps in the data science process. You will need to develop and
implement appropriate steps, in Ipython (Jupyter Notebook), to complete the corresponding
tasks. This assignment isintended to give you practical experience with the typicalsteps of the data
science process.
The “Practical Data Science” Canvas contains further announcements and a discussion
board for this assignment. Please be sure to check these on a regular basis - it is your
responsibility to stay informed with regard to any announcements or changes.

Task 0: Choosing your project topic (1%)
This assignment covers the core steps of the data science process. You need to identify the data
science problem that you want your project to solve. The data science problem must be solvable using
Classification, Regression or Clustering techniques. Please choose carefully as you must list
measurable project goals, tangible deliverables and work on the project with a full data pipeline and
model deployment to solve that problem.
You need to select ONE of the two problem types below for this asignment.
1. Problem type 1: Focusing on Data Modeling.
For this problem, you will model the data by treating it as classification, regression and/or
clustering tasks, depending on your choice. You need to select at least two tasks, one of which must
be a clustering task. For example, your choice can be classification and clustering.
You need to select one of the following datasets then work on it:
1.1. Secondary Mushroom Data Set. More details can be found from the following UCI webpage
about this dataset:
https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/848/secondary+mushroom+dataset
1.2. Online Shoppers Purchasing Intention Dataset Data Set. More details can be found from the
following UCI webpage about this dataset:
https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Online+Shoppers+Purchasing+Intention+Dataset#
2. Problem type 2: Building a recommendation system.
For this problem, you will work on this dataset: Anonymous Microsoft Web Data Dataset.
Details can be found from the following UCI webpage
https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Anonymous+Microsoft+Web+Data
You need to implement at least two approaches for building a recommender system, such as
content-based recommendation and collaborative filtering-based recommendation. For each of the
approaches, you need to use some of the data modeling techniques such as classification, regression
and/or clustering.

Task 1: Retrieving and Preparing the Data (5%)
Being a careful data scientist, you know that it is vital to set the goal for the project, then
thoroughly pre-process any available data (each attribute) before starting to analyse and model
it. In this step, you need to deal with potential issues in the data (such as impossible values, missing
values, duplication, etc.) and explore it.
In your report in Task 4, you need to clearly state the goal of your project, and the design/steps of
pre-processing your data. Please ensure you understand the data you selected.
Task 2: Feature Engineering (5%)
Use suitable Python functions to extract potential features and/or perform feature transformation for
model input. Conduct appropriate analysis to evaluate feature importance (e.g. correlation analysis), then
use suitable method(s) to select the final features for the model. The feature choices must be explained
via analysis.
Note: These steps must be performed consistently for training, validation, and test sets.
RMIT Classification: Trusted

Task 3: Data Modeling (10%)
Model the data by treating it as either a clustering, classification and/or regression task,
depending on your choice.
For Problem type 1, you must use at least two different models for each task (i.e. two
classification models and two clustering models).
For Problem type 2: The two techniques for data modeling (in the two recommender systems)
can be any of the three data modeling approaches (classification, clustering, or regression).
When building each model, you must include the following steps:
• Select appropriate features.
• Select the appropriate model (e.g. DecisionTree for classification) from sklearn.
• Train and evaluate the model appropriately.
• Train and evaluate the model by selecting the appropriate values for each parameter in the
model. You need to show how you choose these values and justify why you choose them.
• Discuss any problem you may observe or discover, such as data leakage, bias.
After you have built the models for each task from the selected data, the next step is to compare
the performance of the models. You need to include the results of this comparison, including a
recommendation of which model should be used and why, in your report (see Task 4).
Other Evaluation Criteria: Innovative Model (bonus 2%)
Out of the four selected models, there should be at least one innovative model (the other three models
can be simple models). A simple model using only one algorithm for model training with some parameter
tuning is not considered as an innovative model. For example, using a K-NN classifier from scikit-learn
without any modification will be considered a simple model and won’t have any point.
If you use a model from any research work, you must cite the reference correctly. An example of an
innovative model is as below:
+ 1 point: a linear stacking of multiple algorithms or an ensemble model.
+ 2 points: a complex ensemble model or a complex combination of multiple algorithms. You can
propose a new model (new algorithm) here.
Give a short explanation about the classification results obtained from the innovative model.

Task 4: Report (4%)
Write your report and save it in a file called report.pdf, and it must be in PDF format, and
must be at most 15 (in single column format) pages for everything (including figures and references)
with a font size 12. Penalties will apply if the report does not satisfy the requirements. Remember
to clearly cite any sources (including books, research papers, course notes, source code, etc.) that
you referred to while designing aspects of your programs.
Your report must have the following structure:
• A cover page, including:
– Statement of the solution representing your own work as required.
– Title
– Author information
RMIT Classification: Trusted
– Affiliations
– Contact details
– Date of report
• Table of Content
• An abstract/executive summary
• Introduction
• Methodology
• Results
• Discussion
• Conclusion
• Reference

Task 5: Presentation (5%)
You will be required to make a presentation in the last session of the course. The presentation
should include, but not limit to:
– briefly describe your chosen problem and dataset(s).
– describe the data preparation steps.
– state the hypotheses/questions that you were investigating.
– explain what the modelling steps are, and what the results are.
– demo of the model deployment.
– show the conclusion and recommendation.
You need to prepare 10-12 slides for the in-class presentation and demonstration.
The presentation should be at a maximum of 15 minutes per group, including 3-5 mintues for demo
and 5 minutes for Q&A. Each group member must present at least 2 slides in the presentation.
Your presentation slides must be included in the submission before the presentation date.
5.1. Slide and presentation (2 points)
• The slides must follow RMIT University template.
• The slides and presentation must clearly present the research question(s), the used methods
for solving the problem(s), the findings (results), and recommendations.
• The presentation is scheduled on Friday, January 16
th
, 2025 (week 12) during our regular
class time).
5.2. Demo (1 point): The code runs without error, showing the exact results as presented in the
report.
5.3. Q&A (2 points): Students answer the questions by the lecturer and other students clearly and
convincingly.
What to Submit, When, and How
Each team needs to make one submission on Canvas.
The assignment is due at 8:00 AM, Friday the 16
th
, January 2025 (in week 12). Assignments
submitted after this time will be subject to standard late submission penalties.
You need to submit the following files:
RMIT Classification: Trusted
• A notebook file containing your python commands, ‘Assignment3.ipynb’. For the
notebook files, please make sure to clean them and remove any unnecessary lines of
code (cells).
• Your report.pdf file at most 15 (in single column format) pages (including figures and
references) with a font size between 10 and 12 points.
• A “readme.txt" file (if needed) includes your name and student ID, and instructions for
how to execute your submitted script files.
• A presentation file (slides, in pptx or PDF format) for your presentation.
All the files should be zipped together, and they must be submitted as ONE single zip file,
named as your team number (for example, 1.zip if your team ID is 1). The zip file must be
submitted in Canvas: Assignments/Assignment 2. Please do NOT submit other unnecessary
files.


Criteria
Task 0: Defining a problem
The student should clearly define the problem, select the data set, and provide a motivation for the selection.
1 to >0.8 pts
HIGH DISTINCTION
The problem, the data set, and a motivation for the selection are defined clearly.

Task 1: Retrieving and Preparing the Data
The student should retrieve the data correctly and prepare the data appropriately.
5 to >3.5 pts
HIGH DISTINCTION
Data retrieved is completely free from errors and is in a form that is entirely appropriate for exploration

Task 2: Feature engineering
Use suitable Python approaches to extract potential features for model input. Conduct appropriate analysis to evaluate feature importance (e.g. correlation analysis), then use suitable method(s) to select the final feature for training/testing model. The feature choices must be explained via analysis. Note: These steps must be performed consistently for both training and testing dataset
5 to >3.5 pts
HIGH DISTINCTION
Successfully extract, analyse and select suitable features for model input. Feature choices are explained clearly.

Task 3: Data Modelling
The student should select the features appropriately. The model should be trained and evaluated appropriately, and the parameters of the model should be tuned appropriately.
10 to >8.0 pts
HIGH DISTINCTION
A clear, comprehensive and robust description of steps with thorough and well-elaborated justifications for decisions made. The quality of the descriptions and justification will be consistent across the models. For both type of models, findings from training, evaluating and fine-tuning the models are clearly stated, well-developed and carefully interpreted. Results from comparison of models are logical, accurate, very insightful and support a clearly-articulated recommendation with a high degree of coherence and consistency.

Task 4: Report
The report should be well-written and well-organised as required. It should include a clear description about the dataset and the research question you selected to solve. The process of modelling should be written clearly and completely, and the justification should be provided for how the features are selected, how the model is trained/evaluated, and and how the parameters are tuned.

The results from the two models should be compared, and please clearly describe what is your final recommendation to the problem you selected.
4 to >3.2 pts
HIGH DISTINCTION
Report includes all the required elements Organisation of information is clear, logical, appropriately sequenced and consistent throughout Grammar and spelling mostly accurate.

Task 5: Presentation and Q&A
The slides should be well-written and well-organised as required. It should include briefly description about the dataset and the research question you selected to solve. The process of modelling, how the features are selected, how the model is trained/evaluated, and and how the parameters are tuned.

The results from the models should be compared, and your final recommendation to the problem you selected.
The demo code must run without errors.
The answers to the questions must be clear and convinced.
5 to >3.5 pts
HIGH DISTINCTION
Slide and presentation include all the required elements. Organisation of information is clear, logical, appropriately sequenced and consistent throughout. The demo work properly. All questions are answered correctly.

